<!--This is the start of the document-->
# How to: Set the font for a text run (Open XML SDK)
**Last modified:** July 27, 2012

_**Applies to:** Office 2013 | Open XML_

**In this article**

 [Packages and Document Parts](#sectionSection1)

 [Create a WordprocessingDocument Object](#sectionSection2)

 [Structure of the Run Fonts Element](#sectionSection3)

 [How the Sample Code Works](#sectionSection4)

 [Sample Code](#sectionSection5)



This topic shows how to use the classes in the Open XML SDK 2.5 for Office to set the font for a portion of text within a word processing document programmatically.

The following assembly directives are required to compile the code in this topic.


```
using System.Linq;
using DocumentFormat.OpenXml.Wordprocessing;
using DocumentFormat.OpenXml.Packaging;
```




```
Imports System.Linq
Imports DocumentFormat.OpenXml.Wordprocessing
Imports DocumentFormat.OpenXml.Packaging
```



<a name="sectionSection1" />




## Packages and Document Parts
An Open XML document is stored as a package, whose format is defined by  [ISO/IEC 29500-2](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=194337). The package can have multiple parts with relationships between them. The relationship between parts controls the category of the document. A document can be defined as a word-processing document if its package-relationship item contains a relationship to a main document part. If its package-relationship item contains a relationship to a presentation part it can be defined as a presentation document. If its package-relationship item contains a relationship to a workbook part, it is defined as a spreadsheet document. In this how-to topic, you will use a word-processing document package.

<a name="sectionSection2" />




## Create a WordprocessingDocument Object
The code example opens a word processing document package by passing a file name as an argument to one of the overloaded  **Open()** methods of the **WordprocessingDocument** class that takes a string and a Boolean value that specifies whether the file should be opened in read/write mode or not. In this case, the Boolean value is **true** specifying that the file should be opened in read/write mode.


```C#
// Open a Wordprocessing document for editing.
using (WordprocessingDocument package = WordprocessingDocument.Open(fileName, true))
{
    // Insert other code here.
}
```




```VB.net
' Open a Wordprocessing document for editing.
Dim package As WordprocessingDocument = WordprocessingDocument.Open(fileName, True)
Using (package)
    ' Insert other code here.
End Using

```



The  **using** statement provides a recommended alternative to the typical .Create, .Save, .Close sequence. It ensures that the **Dispose** method (internal method used by the Open XML SDK to clean up resources) is automatically called when the closing bracket is reached. The block that follows the **using** statement establishes a scope for the object that is created or named in the **using** statement, in this case **package**. Because the  **WordprocessingDocument** class in the Open XML SDK automatically saves and closes the object as part of its **System.IDisposable** implementation, and because the **Dispose** method is automatically called when you exit the block; you do not have to explicitly call **Save** and **Close**-as long as you use using.

<a name="sectionSection3" />




## Structure of the Run Fonts Element
The following text from the  [ISO/IEC 29500](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=194337) specification can be useful when working with **rFonts** element.

This element specifies the fonts which shall be used to display the text contents of this run. Within a single run, there may be up to four types of content present which shall each be allowed to use a unique font:


- ASCII


- High ANSI


- Complex Script


- East Asian



The use of each of these fonts shall be determined by the Unicode character values of the run content, unless manually overridden via use of the cs element.

If this element is not present, the default value is to leave the formatting applied at previous level in the style hierarchy. If this element is never applied in the style hierarchy, then the text shall be displayed in any default font which supports each type of content.

Consider a single text run with both Arabic and English text, as follows:

English ???????

This content may be expressed in a single WordprocessingML run:


```XML
<w:r>
  <w:t>English ???????</w:t>
</w:r>
```



Although it is in the same run, the contents are in different font faces by specifying a different font for ASCII and CS characters in the run:


```XML
<w:r>
  <w:rPr>
    <w:rFonts w:ascii="Courier New" w:cs="Times New Roman" />
  </w:rPr>
  <w:t>English ???????</w:t>
</w:r>
```



This text run shall therefore use the Courier New font for all characters in the ASCII range, and shall use the Times New Roman font for all characters in the Complex Script range.

© ISO/IEC29500: 2008.

<a name="sectionSection4" />




## How the Sample Code Works
After opening the package file for read/write, the code creates a  **RunProperties** object that contains a **RunFonts** object that has its **Ascii** property set to "Arial". **RunProperties** and **RunFonts** objects represent run properties (< **rPr**>) elements and run fonts elements (< **rFont**>), respectively, in the Open XML Wordprocessing schema. Use a  **RunProperties** object to specify the properties of a given text run. In this case, to set the font of the run to Arial, the code creates a **RunFonts** object and then sets the **Ascii** value to "Arial".


```C#
// Use an object initializer for RunProperties and rPr.
RunProperties rPr = new RunProperties(
    new RunFonts()
    {
        Ascii = "Arial"
    });
```




```VB.net

' Use an object initializer for RunProperties and rPr.
Dim rPr As New RunProperties(New RunFonts() With {.Ascii = "Arial"})

```



The code then creates a  **Run** object that represents the first text run of the document. The code instantiates a **Run** and sets it to the first text run of the document. The code then adds the **RunProperties** object to the **Run** object using the **PrependChild<T>(T)** method. The **PrependChild** method adds an element as the first child element to the specified element in the in-memory XML structure. In this case, running the code sample produces an in-memory XML structure where the **RunProperties** element is added as the first child element of the **Run** element. It then saves the changes back to the **Save(MainDocumentPart)** object. Calling the **Save** method of the **WordprocessingDocument** object commits changes made to the in-memory representation of the **MainDocumentPart** part back into the XML file for the **MainDocumentPart** (the document.xml file in the Wordprocessing package).


```C#
Run r = package.MainDocumentPart.Document.Descendants<Run>().First();
r.PrependChild<RunProperties>(rPr);

// Save changes to the MainDocumentPart part.
package.MainDocumentPart.Document.Save();
```




```VB.net
Dim r As Run = package.MainDocumentPart.Document.Descendants(Of Run)().First()
r.PrependChild(Of RunProperties)(rPr)

' Save changes to the MainDocumentPart part.
package.MainDocumentPart.Document.Save()

```



<a name="sectionSection5" />




## Sample Code
The following is the code you can use to change the font of the first paragraph of a Word-processing document. For instance, you can invoke the  **SetRunFont** method in your program to change the font in the file "myPkg9.docx" by using the following call.


```C#
string fileName = @"C:\Users\Public\Documents\MyPkg9.docx";
SetRunFont(fileName);
```




```VB.net
Dim fileName As String = "C:\Users\Public\Documents\MyPkg9.docx"
SetRunFont(fileName)
```



After running the program check your file "MyPkg9.docx" to see the changed font.


**Note**  This code example assumes that the test word processing document (MyPakg9.docx) contains at least one text run.


  The following is the complete sample code in both C# and Visual Basic.


```C#
// Set the font for a text run.
public static void SetRunFont(string fileName)
{
    // Open a Wordprocessing document for editing.
    using (WordprocessingDocument package = WordprocessingDocument.Open(fileName, true))
    {
        // Set the font to Arial to the first Run.
        // Use an object initializer for RunProperties and rPr.
        RunProperties rPr = new RunProperties(
            new RunFonts()
            {
                Ascii = "Arial"
            });

        Run r = package.MainDocumentPart.Document.Descendants<Run>().First();
        r.PrependChild<RunProperties>(rPr);

        // Save changes to the MainDocumentPart part.
        package.MainDocumentPart.Document.Save();
    }
}

```




```VB.net
' Set the font for a text run.
Public Sub SetRunFont(ByVal fileName As String)
    ' Open a Wordprocessing document for editing.
    Dim package As WordprocessingDocument = WordprocessingDocument.Open(fileName, True)
    Using (package)
        ' Set the font to Arial to the first Run.
        Dim rPr As RunProperties = New RunProperties(New RunFonts With {.Ascii = "Arial"})
        Dim r As Run = package.MainDocumentPart.Document.Descendants(Of Run).First

        r.PrependChild(Of RunProperties)(rPr)

        ' Save changes to the main document part.
        package.MainDocumentPart.Document.Save()
    End Using
End Sub
```




## See also

#### Other resources


 [Open XML SDK 2.5 class library reference](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/36c8a76e-ce1b-5959-7e85-5d77db7f46d6(Office.15).aspx)

 [Object Initializers: Named and Anonymous Types](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/bb385125.aspx)

 [Object and Collection Initializers (C# Programming Guide)](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/bb384062.aspx)
