<!--This is the start of the document-->
# Working with the calculation chain (Open XML SDK)
**Last modified:** April 11, 2013

_**Applies to:** Office 2013 | Open XML_

This topic discusses the Open XML SDK 2.5  **CalculationChain** class and how it relates to the Open XML File Format SpreadsheetML schema. For more information about the overall structure of the parts and elements that make up a SpreadsheetML document, see [Structure of a SpreadsheetML document (Open XML SDK)](https://github.com/jhershey00/OpenXMLTest/blob/master/articles/3b35a153-c8ff-4dc7-96d5-02c515f31770.md).


## CalculationChain in SpreadsheetML
The following information from the  [ISO/IEC 29500](http://www.iso.org/iso/iso_catalogue/catalogue_tc/catalogue_detail.htm?csnumber=51463) specification introduces the **CalculationChain** (< **calcChain**>) element.

An instance of this part type contains an ordered set of references to all cells in all worksheets in the workbook whose value is calculated from any formula. The ordering allows inter-related cell formulas to be calculated in the correct order when a worksheet is loaded for use.

A package shall contain no more than one Calculation Chain part.

The root element for a part of this content type shall be calcChain.

The Calculation Chain part specifies the order in which cells in the workbook were last calculated. It only records information about cells containing formulas. It does not include any information about the formula-dependency calculation tree. In other words, the Calculation Chain part does not indicate the dependencies that formulas have on other cell values; it only indicates the order in which the cells were last calculated.

Any particular calculation event can cause the calculation chain order to be rearranged or altered. For example, adding more formulas to the workbook adds references in the Calculation Chain part.

Another example of how the calculation order can be updated involves the idea of partial calculation. Partial calculation is an optimization a spreadsheet application can implement to calculate only those cells that are dependent on other cells whose values have changed, and to ignore other formulas in the workbook. This helps to avoid redundantly recalculating results that are already known. Therefore, if a set of formulas that were previously ignored during a calculation become required for calculation (due to a cell's value changing), then these formulas move to "first" on the calculation chain so they can be evaluated.

While calculation chain information can be loaded by a spreadsheet application, it is not required. A calculation chain can be constructed in memory at load-time based on the formulas and their interdependence, if the spreadsheet application finds this information useful. The order expressed in the Calculation Chain part does not force or dictate to the implementing application the order in which calculations must be performed at runtime.

© ISO/IEC29500: 2008.

The following table lists the common Open XML SDK 2.5 classes used when working with the  **CalculationChain** class.


****

<table xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" xmlns:mtps="http://msdn2.microsoft.com/mtps" xmlns:mshelp="http://msdn.microsoft.com/mshelp" xmlns:ddue="http://ddue.schemas.microsoft.com/authoring/2003/5" xmlns:msxsl="urn:schemas-microsoft-com:xslt"><tr><th><p>SpreadsheetML Element</p></th><th><p>Open XML SDK 2.5 Class</p></th></tr><tr><td><p>c</p></td><td><p><span sdata="cer" target="T:DocumentFormat.OpenXml.Spreadsheet.CalculationCell"><span class="nolink">CalculationCell</span></span></p></td></tr></table>

## Open XML SDK 2.5 CalculationChain Class
The Open XML SDK 2.5 **CalculationChain** class represents the paragraph (< **calcChain**>) element defined in the Open XML File Format schema for SpreadsheetML documents. Use the  **CalculationChain** class to manipulate individual < **calcChain**> elements in a SpreadsheetML document.


### Calculation Cell Class
The  **CalculationCell** class represents the cell (< **si**>) element that represents a cell that contains a formula.

The following information from the ISO/IEC 29500 specification introduces the  **CalculationCell** (< **c**>) element.

Every c element represents a cell containing a formula. The first cell calculated appears first (top-tobottom), and so on. The reference attribute r indicates the cell's address in the sheet. The index attribute i indicates the index of the sheet with which that cell is associated.

© ISO/IEC29500: 2008.


### SpreadsheetML
The following information from the ISO/IEC 29500 shows the XML for an example calculation chain after the application performs its first full calculation.

<calcChain xmlns="…">

 <c r="B2" i="1"/>

 <c r="B3" s="1"/>

 <c r="B4" s="1"/>

 <c r="B5" s="1"/>

 <c r="B6" s="1"/>

 <c r="B7" s="1"/>

 <c r="B8" s="1"/>

 <c r="B9" s="1"/>

 <c r="B10" s="1"/>

 <c r="C10" s="1"/>

 <c r="D10" s="1"/>

 <c r="A2"/>

 <c r="A3" s="1"/>

 <c r="A4" s="1"/>

 <c r="A5" s="1"/>

 <c r="A6" s="1"/>

 <c r="A7" s="1"/>

 <c r="A8" s="1"/>

 <c r="A9" s="1"/>

 <c r="A10" s="1"/>

</calcChain>

