
# Databar.PercentMax Property (Excel)

 **Last modified:** March 10, 2013

 **In this article**
 [Version Information](#sectionSection0)
 [Syntax](#sectionSection1)
 [Remarks](#sectionSection2)


Returns or sets a  **Long** value that specifies the length of the longest data bar as a percentage of cell width.


## Version Information
<a name="sectionSection0"> </a>

Version Added: Excel 2007 


## Syntax
<a name="sectionSection1"> </a>

 _expression_. **PercentMax**

 _expression_A variable that represents a  ** [Databar](2684e913-c278-e6be-ba9d-053b6ad58bae.md)** object.


## Remarks
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>

The value must be a whole number between 0 and 100. The default value is 100.

The effect of the  **PercentMax** property varies depending on the setting of the ** [AxisPosition](0e239fd1-8bdf-2355-10ae-b7766b9befaf.md)** property of the **Databar** object. When the **AxisPosition** property is **xlDataBarAxisAutomatic** and the range contains both positive and negative values, the sum of the lengths of longest positive data bar and the longest negative data bar will not exceed the value specified by the **PercentMax** property. When the **AxisPosition** property is **xlDataBarAxisMidpoint**, the longest data bar (positive or negative) will be equal to the value of the  **PercentMax** property divided by 2. When the **AxisPosition** property is **xlDataBarAxisNone**, the length of the longest data bar is always the percentage of cell width specified by the  **PercentMax** property.


## See also
<a name="sectionSection2"> </a>


#### Concepts


 [Databar Object](2684e913-c278-e6be-ba9d-053b6ad58bae.md)
#### Other resources


 [Databar Object Members](137f7e88-bb61-48a3-d2cb-76a8282cd62e.md)
